Abstract
=================

It is a fact that in recent years the level of security breach and cheat of various transactions has increased, thus increasing the need for secure identification and verification of an individual. Towards this end, recent advances in several scientific fields have led to the development of Human-Computer Interaction systems to extract biometric features for high levels of security. The purpose of this diploma thesis is to implement a Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) system to identify a person through methods of measure the functional connectivity of the brain, with data obtained from an Electroencephalography (EEG).

In particular, the first part of the thesis has been devoted to the theoretical background required to understand the operation of a BCI system, presenting the various methods for signal pre-processing, feature extraction and classification. The second part focuses on a step-by-step implementation of a system that aims to identify an individual based on EEG. This section explores the impact of some of the most common techniques for evaluating functional connectivity (Amplitude Envelope Correlation (AEC), Phase Lag Index (PLI), Phase Locking Value (PLV)) and centrality measures and compares them with Equal Error Rate (EER) for exporting results. In addition to different metrics, different types of filtering were applied during the signal pre-processing step. Finally, it was associated with systems having less than 64 channels (32, 14, 5) at the stage of EEG acquisition.

Experimental results suggest that different functional connectivity metrics define a peculiar subjective profile of connectivity and have different mechanisms to detect subject-specific patterns of inter-channel interactions. Generally, there were EER rates below 10 \% for all methods. During the experiment with different types of filtering it was observed that they produce slightly noticeable differences in the EER results for all methods. Also, it is noted that for a low-cost option with sufficient ease, systems with less than 64 channels can be used to provide satisfactory individual identification. Finally, it is observed that the highest performance (lowest EER value) of this implementation occurred with the PLI method at high frequencies (Gamma) for a 32 channel system and is EER = 5.24 %.
